+++
tags = ["dp"]
+++

# CF-1393D Rarity and New Dress

Carousel Boutique is busy again! Rarity has decided to visit the pony ball and she surely needs a new dress, because going out in the same dress several times is a sign of bad manners. First of all, she needs a dress pattern, which she is going to cut out from the rectangular piece of the multicolored fabric.

The piece of the multicolored fabric consists of $n \times m$ separate square scraps. Since Rarity likes dresses in style, a dress pattern must only include scraps sharing the same color. A dress pattern must be the square, and since Rarity is fond of rhombuses, the sides of a pattern must form a $45^{\circ}$ angle with sides of a piece of fabric (that way it will be resembling the traditional picture of a rhombus).

Examples of proper dress patterns: 

```
xax
aaa
xax
```

Rarity wonders how many ways to cut out a dress pattern that satisfies all the conditions that do exist. Please help her and satisfy her curiosity so she can continue working on her new masterpiece!

## Input

The first line contains two integers $n$ and $m (1 \le n, m \le 2000)$. Each of the next $n$ lines contains $m$ characters: lowercase English letters, the $j$-th of which corresponds to scrap in the current line and in the $j$-th column. Scraps having the same letter share the same color, scraps having different letters have different colors.

## Output

Print a single integer: the number of ways to cut out a dress pattern to satisfy all of Rarity's conditions.

## Sample Input

Input 1:

```
3 3
aaa
aaa
aaa
```

Input 2:

```
3 4
abab
baba
abab
```

Input 3:

```
5 5
zbacg
baaac
aaaaa
eaaad
weadd
```

## Sample Output

Output 1:

```
10
```

Output 2:

```
12
```

Output 3:

```
31
```

## Solution

有很多种 dp 方法，比较巧妙且简单的是 $f[i][j]$ 为以点 $(i, j)$ 为最下角的斜正方形的边长。

```c++
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

const int MAXN = 2003;
char a[MAXN][MAXN];
int f[MAXN][MAXN];

int main() {
  int n, m;
  scanf("%d%d", &n, &m);
  for (int i = 0; i < n; i ++)
    scanf("%s", a[i]);
  long long ans = 0;
  for (int i = 0; i < n; i ++)
    for (int j = 0; j < m; j ++) {
      if (i <= 1 || j == 0 || j == m-1 ||
          a[i-1][j] != a[i][j] || a[i-2][j] != a[i][j] ||
          a[i-1][j-1] != a[i][j] || a[i-1][j+1] != a[i][j])
        f[i][j] = 1;
      else
        f[i][j] = 1 + min({f[i-1][j-1], f[i-1][j+1], f[i-2][j]});
      ans += f[i][j];
    }
  printf("%lld", ans);
  return 0;
}
```
